feat: add base64 support (#1171)
fortran-lang/stdlib: doc/specs/stdlib_base64.md

---
title: base64
---

# The `stdlib_base64` module

[TOC]

## Introduction

The `stdlib_base64` module provides procedures to encode and decode intrinsic
Fortran data using the Base64 encoding scheme defined by RFC 4648.

## Specification of the `stdlib_base64` procedures

### `base64_encode`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Encodes intrinsic arrays into Base64 text.

This is the ergonomic API for encoding. It allocates and returns the output
string automatically.

#### Syntax

`res =` [[stdlib_base64(module):base64_encode(interface)]] `(data)`

#### Class

Function.

#### Argument

`data`: shall be a contiguous array of an intrinsic type (`real`, `integer`,
`complex`, `logical`, or `integer(int8)`). It is an `intent(in)` argument.

#### Result value

The result `res` is an allocatable character string (`character(len=:)`)
containing the Base64 representation of the input `data`.

#### Example

> ```fortran

Reviewer: Please make examples executable programs and include them within the documentation by importing the file.
You can check other .md files to see how it is done.

---
title: base64
---

# The `stdlib_base64` module

[TOC]

## Introduction

The `stdlib_base64` module provides procedures to encode and decode intrinsic
Fortran data using the Base64 encoding scheme defined by RFC 4648.

## Specification of the `stdlib_base64` procedures

### `base64_encode`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Encodes intrinsic arrays into Base64 text.

This is the ergonomic API for encoding. It allocates and returns the output
string automatically.

#### Syntax

`res =` [[stdlib_base64(module):base64_encode(interface)]] `(data)`

#### Class

Function.

#### Argument

`data`: shall be a contiguous array of an intrinsic type (`real`, `integer`,

> `complex`, `logical`, or `integer(int8)`). It is an `intent(in)` argument.

Reviewer 2: `integer` is mentioned twice. Does it mean that all kinds of `integer` are supported? (and what about other types?)
Maybe:

```suggestion
`data`: shall be a contiguous array of an intrinsic type (`real`, `integer`,
`complex`, `logical`) of any kind. It is an `intent(in)` argument.
```

Author: Updated the docs to make it clear. Yeah everything is supported.

#### Result value

The result `res` is an allocatable character string (`character(len=:)`)
containing the Base64 representation of the input `data`.

#### Example

```fortran
{!example/strings/example_base64_encode.f90!}
```

### `base64_encode_into`

#### Status

Experimental

#### Description

Encodes bytes into a caller-provided output buffer.

This is the preallocated API for throughput-sensitive workflows. It does not

> allocate and reports status through `err_state`. On success,

Reviewer 2: The sentence is unclear. Does it or not report status?

Author: Made it clear, it reports status

`err_state%ok()` is `.true.` and `encoded_len` is the number of meaningful
characters written to `str`.

#### Syntax

`call` [[stdlib_base64(module):base64_encode_into(subroutine)]] &
`(bytes, str, encoded_len, err_state)`

#### Class

Pure module subroutine.

#### Arguments

`bytes`: shall be a contiguous array of type `integer(int8)`. It is an
`intent(in)` argument.

> `str`: shall be an intrinsic character type. It is an `intent(out)` argument.

Reviewer 2: Is it `allocatable`?

Author: No
